writeup_template.md, before:

# **Finding Lane Lines on the Road** 

## Writeup Template

### You can use this file as a template for your writeup if you want to submit it as a markdown file. But feel free to use some other method and submit a pdf if you prefer.

---

**Finding Lane Lines on the Road**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Make a pipeline that finds lane lines on the road
* Reflect on your work in a written report


[//]: # (Image References)

[image1]: ./examples/grayscale.jpg "Grayscale"

---

### Reflection

### 1. Describe your pipeline. As part of the description, explain how you modified the draw_lines() function.

My pipeline consisted of 5 steps. First, I converted the images to grayscale, then I .... 

In order to draw a single line on the left and right lanes, I modified the draw_lines() function by ...

If you'd like to include images to show how the pipeline works, here is how to include an image: 

![alt text][image1]


### 2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline


One potential shortcoming would be what would happen when ... 

Another shortcoming could be ...


### 3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline

A possible improvement would be to ...

Another potential improvement could be to ...

Commit message:

start writing && improve some code

writeup_template.md, after:

# **Finding Lane Lines on the Road** 

**Finding Lane Lines on the Road**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Make a pipeline that finds lane lines on the road
* Reflect on your work in a written report


[//]: # (Image References)

[image1]: ./examples/grayscale.jpg "Grayscale"
[region]: ./examples/regions.png 
---

### Reflection

### 1. Describe your pipeline. As part of the description, explain how you modified the draw_lines() function.

My pipeline consisted of the followng steps     
1. Change the image to gray.
2. Blur the images to reduce noise with kernal 5, which it give better result
3. Detect Canny edge with 50, 250 for low and hight threshold respectfully, these the best value i found after testing it. also I need to elemenat more edges that are not stright
4. find the best region that very much fit most work images on the testing vidoes.

![alt text][region]

5. hough_lines
6. draw lines on a color image

---


In order to draw a single line on the left and right lanes, I modified the draw_lines() function by ...



### 2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline


One potential shortcoming would be what would happen when ... 

Another shortcoming could be ...


### 3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline

A possible improvement would be to ...

Another potential improvement could be to ...
